Welcome back hand in this lesson I want to do some bug fixing and tweaking.
So we saw earlier that we had the ability to move through all the different questions and were able
to select various answers possible answers within the questions by simply clicking them.
And one of the problems was that we don't actually aren't actually removing them.
So that's one of the big problems is that we're not removing them out.
So also when we refresh it if we refresh the page then we can also click that top one as well so we
don't want to be able to click that top one either.
So there's a few things we don't want to add that active class to either as well.
So that's one of the things we need to be mindful of the fact that we don't want to add active class
to that main element.
Or to the question itself.
So we have a few options here.
And one of them I wanted to do is I want to set this one up as QUESTION So that way we can go to the
class list and we can see if the class list has that as the question.
And if not then we can simply grab that and whenever it gets clicked.
So this is another thing that we need to be mindful of the fact is that we don't want to add this user
answer if the user is selecting the top one here because that's going to that's going to actually that's
going to actually cause a problem with that that we've got an identified and Nan and so on.
So not a number.
So this is something that we do need to be mindful of the fact and now that I've got it in that class
we can quickly check to see if the one that was clicked that current element is there is one of the
classes.
So let's do a quick check.
So do a condition and we're only going to apply this stuff
and let me clean that up a little bit.
So we're only going to apply it if the current target has a class name.
So within the class list we've got a class name of it.
If we don't have a class name of question in the list and this is where we can use class list contains.
So let's do
classless or not going at it.
We're going to check to see if it contains.
And the one that we're looking for so the class that we're looking for is going to be question and we
want to do a negative on this.
So this way let's refresh it.
And now we're not able to answer to it on there.
And that actually should be contained.
So it's up to that refresh again.
And now we see that we can't we can't select that.
The main question as a class.
So we don't want to be able to select that question as a class.
And also that means that we can apply some styling to that question so we can do the font size to make
it a little bit bigger so that we can identify that this is actually the question and it's not one of
the possible answers.
We will have.
I want to play a background color to it so that it's more distinct.
So to do a background color of black and we'll do a font color of white.
So a lot of times you build up these applications.
You do need to do a little bit of bug fixing.
So the other one is that we can continue clicking and we know that at this point we should be able to
move further.
So we need to have a way to kind of block that next move.
And we know that we're passing the value of A.
And we know that we also have a link so if we take the value of page it's four and if we take the value
of my data so my data length we've got a value of four.
So we know that we can't move next past that because that's what we're going to throw an error.
So we have to make sure that the value of A is.
So we're going to do a condition here to see if the value of A is equal to or greater than or equal
to the value of my data length.
And if it is then we know that this is the game is over.
So console and what just came over for now.
So the console log out.
Game over.
Otherwise we know we're good to move on to the next the next page.
So we can put these values in here and apply that logic to that statement.
So now let's try that again.
So now we shouldn't be able to actually move past this one.
And while we as game over so we know that at this point this is where we need to do the summary of the
page.
The other challenge too is that we need to record the answers and we know that we can record them and
we're actually recording them in user answer.
So we know that we're recording them in there and as we're moving through there we're able to record
them out.
So one of the things too is that we need to check to see and we need when we're building out the page
we need to add that active CLOS to the answer if it's correct.
So let's do a condition and we're going to loop through user answer.
So we know that whatever page they're on that's the index value that we're looking at.
So let's take a look at that
and save that.
So now every time we build out the page we've got a bunch of undefined there because we haven't selected
anything yet.
And so now we're getting one.
If I go on and if I click this one and if I go back to it we're also seeing that it was 0 was selected.
So we can actually tell which one got selected by using user answer.
So the next challenge is to add that active class into the element.
If the value is there so if it's not undefined and if the value matches whatever value of X is currently
available then we know that we need to add that active class so we could do it in a number of ways.
Let's do it within a territory operator.
So let's just do a class.
And what were you going to do is we're going to check to see if this value is equal to x and if it is
then we know that we need to set an active class.
And if it's not then we're just going to leave it blank.
And now let's add in class.
So now that we're dynamically doing this class here we can add that brain nucleated element
in that type of format.
So let's refresh it again.
Let's make our selection move back and there we go.
So now we actually do have the ability to kind of record what's been selected within our process and
we can see that we can go back we can update those values.
And these are also being reflected within the database.
So we're all ready to do the scoring.
And there was one other bug that still was there that we shouldn't be able to move less than what the
pages.
And again we can handle this part within the move.
So where we know that the value of page is negative 1 and we can't have that.
So basically if the value of a is negative one then we're just going to disable that so we're not going
to do anything to it.
So let's add a condition in there.
So check to see if the value of a is less than zero.
Then we're going to set the value of a to be zero.
So that's all we have to do there.
So let's go back refreshed and now even if we click it it's not going to allow us to move any further.
So that's perfect.
That's exactly what we want.
And we also want to identify all those values.
So everything is there and everything is done.
And the next step is to output the summary.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and we know that where we've gotten game over this is
where we need to output the summary.
So instead of outputting the next page we need to just build the summary.
So create a function that gets launched here and the game over.
Let's launch the function summary and output that content in the visible area so that basically means
that that's it.
There's no more next page.
We need to compare the answers to the quiz is done.
So it's in that function.
So now what we need to do is we need to loop through the array where we're holding the answers and we
have to compare those answers to the content in my data and do basic output of we'll loop through all
of those and we can see if the answer was correct or not.
And then we're going to create a score out of that.
So why are you take a the video and update that summary so that outputs here with an output one area
and I'll show the solution coming up.
So we know that we need to loop through all of the Wii available data within the my data object and
we can loop through it.
So I'm going to just aboard one of these loops here.
And to save time just make it look better and instead of this we're going to be looping through my data
the length
and we know that with my data.
So let's take a closer look at it within the console.
So we've got we've got a bunch of questions and each one of these.
So as we loop through.
So let's console log out first.
And we know that as we loop through that value we want to have the correct the one that's correct.
So let's do.
Correct.
So whatever the correct one is we want to loop through it and we also let's also console log out another
value.
And this is going to be the corresponding value within the array that we've been saving these user answers
to.
So let's do that and we don't need to have.
There's no object information for that.
So let's try this out.
So now let's make our selections
and we we need to launch summary.
So there we go.
So we've got our summary.
So the first one we got 1 2 1 2 1 8 2.
So we didn't get any correct.
Let's go back and make some updates and then we're going to launch that again.
So red grass green sky is blue.
And five.
So this time we got everything correct.
So now the next thing is that we just need to make sure that we do this comparison and we can output
this within the summary.
So let's complete that and let's build out a variable HMO and we can do one summary.
And now let's add to that each time.
So let's do a check to see if this value is equal to this value.
And if it is then we know that the user got it correct.
So it's h to M M-L and add to h to M..
That will do.
Question
X and we've got to do X plus one because we're starting at zero.
So it's a more readable
and let's leave a space there.
And another one.
And let's
close that off for now.
And we know that if the user got this correct then we need to output that it was correct.
Correct.
And otherwise else let's put wrong
and also Let's score plus plus if the score is increasing and let's set the value of score to zero
and then after we finish doing the loops let's do each Timo.
Your score was.
And now we can put the value of score
and out of and whatever the length of my data was.
And then lastly let's put that content into the inner h him out of output and get rid of some of these
Konsole logs as well.
So there we go.
So now let's try this out.
So first question next question let's get some wrong here.
So your summary question one correct question to correct.
Question 3 wrong question for wrong your score was 2 out of 10.
We should actually have some spacing here as well.
So it can out in line breaks and you could really customize this to look however you want it to look.
So it's refresh.
So there you go.
So we've got question one correct.
Wrong wrong wrong score was 1 out of 4.
And you can let people go back and update their answers as well.
So
we can see that you can update them.
And this is also a matter of preference you could lock this out at this point you could just get rid
of the buttons you could overwrite the H to M L So a number of options here.
Again it's up to you.
Now at this point to summarize it as needed.
And remember this is content that's coming from an API.
So if you had a different set of questions your quiz would still function the same way except the questions
would look different.
And that's what I want you to do now as well to create to go over to my Giese on dot com and keeping
within that same format where we've got a question and we've got a number of possible answers.
And then we just identify which one is correct.
Keeping in that same format buildout AJ saw and file that works within this quiz application.
I asked some really interesting questions and build it up on my son pull it into the quiz up and just
try it for yourself.
And the other thing too is to make this look better.
I had some styling and additional functionality if you want within this quiz.
So do try it for yourself practice.
Get familiar with working with Jaison and pulling in that Giese on data into your javascript applications.